# Indonesia

Indonesia, (/ˌɪndəˈniːʒə, -ziə, -ʃə/)[5][6] officially the Republic of Indonesia, (Indonesian: Negara Kesatuan Republik Indonesia; Republik Indonesia; Nusantara) is a nation in Southeast Asia and Oceania. As the biggest archipelago country in the world, Indonesia has 17,504 islands. The most important islands of Indonesia are Java, Bali, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Sumatra. The capital of Indonesia is Jakarta, on the island of Java, but there are plans to change it to Nusantara.[7] The current president is Prabowo Subianto. Modern Indonesia began on the 17th of August 1945. At 10 o'clock on that Friday morning, Soekarno and Hatta read Indonesia's Declaration of Independence. Indonesia's Independence Day is a national holiday.

Indonesia is the fourth most populated country in the world with 238,452,952 people (2004 est.).[8] Half of the population lives in Java. There are 111 people per km2. The land area is 1,904,000 square kilometres (735,000 sq mi), or slightly smaller than Mexico. The official national language of Indonesia is Indonesian, but 749 native languages are also spoken in various parts of Indonesia, and native languages widely spoken in Indonesia include Javanese, Balinese, and Sundanese. Indonesia's neighbors are Australia to the south, Singapore to the northwest, and Philippines to the northeast. Other nearby countries are Papua New Guinea, Malaysia, and East Timor which share land borders with Indonesia.

Indonesia has the most active volcanoes of any country in the world. It is also close to fault lines so there are many earthquakes and tsunamis.